README.rst, before:

===============
Guzzle Commands
===============

This library provides an event-based abstraction over Guzzle HTTP requests and
responses using **commands** and **models**. Events are emitted for preparing
commands, processing commands, and handling errors encountered while executing
a command.

Commands
    Key value pair objects representing an action to take on a web service.
    Commands have a name and a set of parameters.

Models
    Models are key value pair objects representing the result of an API
    operation.

Installing
==========

This project can be installed using Composer. Add the following to your
composer.json:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "require": {
            "guzzlehttp/command": "0.7.*"
        }
    }

Service Clients
===============

Guzzle Service Clients are HTTP web service clients that use
``GuzzleHttp\Client`` objects, commands, and the command event system. Event
listeners are attached to the client to handle creating HTTP requests for a
command, processing HTTP responses into a result (typically an array), and
extends ``GuzzleHttp\Exception\RequestException`` objects with a higher-level
``GuzzleHttp\Command\Exception\CommandException``.

Service clients create commands using the ``getCommand()`` method.

.. code-block:: php

    $commandName = 'foo';
    $arguments = ['baz' => 'bar'];
    $command = $client->getCommand($commandName, $arguments);

After creating a command, you execute the command using the ``execute()``
method of the client.

.. code-block:: php

    $result = $client->execute($command);

The result of executing a command can be anything. However, implementations
should clearly specify what the result of a command will be. A typical result
to return is a PHP associative array or ``GuzzleHttp\Ring\Future\FutureArray``.

Service clients have a magic method for calling commands by name without having
to create the command then execute it.

.. code-block:: php

    $result = $client->foo(['baz' => 'bar']);

Service clients have configuration options that can be accessed in event
listeners.

.. code-block:: php

    $value = $client->getConfig('name');

    // You can also use a path notation where sub-array keys are separated
    // using a "/".
    $value = $client->getConfig('foo/baz/bar');

Values can be set using a similar notation.

.. code-block:: php

    $client->setConfig('name', 'value');
    // Set by nested path, creating sub-arrays as needed
    $value = $client->setConfig('foo/baz/bar', 'value');

Future Results
--------------

Service clients can create future results that return immediately and block
when they are used (or dereferenced). When creating a command, you can provide
the ``@future`` command parameter to control whether or not a future result is
created. Implementations should take this special setting into account when
creating commands.

.. code-block:: php

    // Create a command that's configured to get a future
    $command = $client->getCommand('name', ['@future' => true]);
    assert($command->getFuture() == true);

    // Create and execute a future command
    $result = $client->name(['@future' => true]);

    // Using a future result will block if necessary until the future has
    // completed (or been "realized").
    echo $result['foo'];
    assert($result->realized() == true);

    // You can also explicitly block until the command has finished using deref
    $result->deref();

Event System
============

Commands emit three events. These events are emitted immediately when an
underyling response has completed (even if it is a future response).

init
    Emitted before a request is prepared for a command. This event is useful
    for validating input parameters, adding default parameters, etc. Any
    exceptions thrown in the init event are thrown immediately (with no
    transition to the process event).

prepared
    Emitted immediately after a request has been prepared for a command. This
    event is fired only once per command execution. Use this event to hook into
    the request lifecycle events.

    .. code-block:: php

        use GuzzleHttp\Command\Event\PreparedEvent;

        $command->getEmitter()->on('prepared', function(PreparedEvent $event) {
            echo $event->getRequest();
        });

    Any exceptions thrown while emitting the "prepared" event will be
    associated with the command transaction and the "process" event will be
    emitted.

process
    The process event is emitted when processing an HTTP response or processing
    a previously set command result. It is important to note that a previously
    executed listener may have already set a result. Take this into account
    when writing process event listeners. It is also important to understand
    that an HTTP response may not be available in the process event if a result
    interecepted the "prepared" event or in the case of a networking error.

    Emitted when a command completes, whether for a success or failure. This
    event will be invoked once, and only once, for a command execution.

    .. code-block:: php

        $command->getEmitter()->on('process', function(ProcessEvent $e) {
            if ($e->getException()) {
                echo 'Oh no!';
            } else {
                $e->setResult('foo');
                var_dump($e->getResult());
            }
        });

Commit message:

Restructured Commands for Guzzle 6, PSR 7, Middleware, and Promises

README.rst, after:

===============
Guzzle Commands
===============

This library provides the foundations to create web service clients by
abstracting Guzzle HTTP requests and responses into **commands** and
**results**. A middleware system, analogous to — but separate from — the one in
the HTTP layer may be used to help prepare commands and process results.

Commands
    Key-value pair objects representing an action to take on a web service.
    Commands have a name and a set of parameters.

Results
    key-value pair objects representing the result of executing an operation of
    a web service.

Installing
==========

This project can be installed using Composer. Add the following to your
composer.json:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "require": {
            "guzzlehttp/command": "0.9.*"
        }
    }


**Still updating the rest of the README.**

Service Clients
===============

Guzzle Service Clients are HTTP web service clients that use
``GuzzleHttp\Client`` objects, commands, and the command event system. Event
listeners are attached to the client to handle creating HTTP requests for a
command, processing HTTP responses into a result (typically an array), and
extends ``GuzzleHttp\Exception\RequestException`` objects with a higher-level
``GuzzleHttp\Command\Exception\CommandException``.

Service clients create commands using the ``getCommand()`` method.

.. code-block:: php

    $commandName = 'foo';
    $arguments = ['baz' => 'bar'];
    $command = $client->getCommand($commandName, $arguments);

After creating a command, you execute the command using the ``execute()``
method of the client.

.. code-block:: php

    $result = $client->execute($command);

The result of executing a command can be anything. However, implementations
should clearly specify what the result of a command will be. A typical result
to return is a PHP associative array or ``GuzzleHttp\Ring\Future\FutureArray``.

Service clients have a magic method for calling commands by name without having
to create the command then execute it.

.. code-block:: php

    $result = $client->foo(['baz' => 'bar']);

Service clients have configuration options that can be accessed in event
listeners.

.. code-block:: php

    $value = $client->getConfig('name');

    // You can also use a path notation where sub-array keys are separated
    // using a "/".
    $value = $client->getConfig('foo/baz/bar');

Values can be set using a similar notation.

.. code-block:: php

    $client->setConfig('name', 'value');
    // Set by nested path, creating sub-arrays as needed
    $value = $client->setConfig('foo/baz/bar', 'value');

Future Results
--------------

Service clients can create future results that return immediately and block
when they are used (or dereferenced). When creating a command, you can provide
the ``@future`` command parameter to control whether or not a future result is
created. Implementations should take this special setting into account when
creating commands.

.. code-block:: php

    // Create a command that's configured to get a future
    $command = $client->getCommand('name', ['@future' => true]);
    assert($command->getFuture() == true);

    // Create and execute a future command
    $result = $client->name(['@future' => true]);

    // Using a future result will block if necessary until the future has
    // completed (or been "realized").
    echo $result['foo'];
    assert($result->realized() == true);

    // You can also explicitly block until the command has finished using deref
    $result->deref();

Event System
============

Commands emit three events. These events are emitted immediately when an
underyling response has completed (even if it is a future response).

init
    Emitted before a request is prepared for a command. This event is useful
    for validating input parameters, adding default parameters, etc. Any
    exceptions thrown in the init event are thrown immediately (with no
    transition to the process event).

prepared
    Emitted immediately after a request has been prepared for a command. This
    event is fired only once per command execution. Use this event to hook into
    the request lifecycle events.

    .. code-block:: php

        use GuzzleHttp\Command\Event\PreparedEvent;

        $command->getEmitter()->on('prepared', function(PreparedEvent $event) {
            echo $event->getRequest();
        });

    Any exceptions thrown while emitting the "prepared" event will be
    associated with the command transaction and the "process" event will be
    emitted.

process
    The process event is emitted when processing an HTTP response or processing
    a previously set command result. It is important to note that a previously
    executed listener may have already set a result. Take this into account
    when writing process event listeners. It is also important to understand
    that an HTTP response may not be available in the process event if a result
    interecepted the "prepared" event or in the case of a networking error.

    Emitted when a command completes, whether for a success or failure. This
    event will be invoked once, and only once, for a command execution.

    .. code-block:: php

        $command->getEmitter()->on('process', function(ProcessEvent $e) {
            if ($e->getException()) {
                echo 'Oh no!';
            } else {
                $e->setResult('foo');
                var_dump($e->getResult());
            }
        });
